(1) Java is Platform independent language:
Because of the byte code functionality java is called Platform independent language

(2) Platform neutral / architectural neutral:
Memory allocation of variables is completely independent from the systems architecture in Java & all the variables will be always allocates a constant amount of memory on all the architectures.

(3) Simple and Secure:
Java is a simple language for on experienced programmer becoz it follows the hierarchy.

    Java is a secure language because:

(a) It has high encryption standard.
(b) It has byte code security
(c) Java does not support pointer variables.

(4) Robust (strong);
Java is robust because of three properties:
(a) Strictly type checked

    int a = 10.65;

This line was a valid statement in C & C++ because implicit type casting it will be because of data type mismatch. Invalid in java

(b) Garbage collector: It is a thread that will execute after the completion of every program, it will collect the memory (object) used by the program.

(c) Exception Handling: A run time error is called an exception and a mechanism that can handles error is called Exception Handling Mechanism.

(5) Java supports Multi Threading:

A thread is a light weight process ( part of a process and capability of system multiple threads Simuntaneously is called threading. )

(6) Java is an Object Oriented Languages :
Class: It is a user defined entity. It is A a collection of variables and methods.

Object is a run time on real time entity it is also known as instaneous of a class and it has the authority to excess any content of the class.

Abstraction/ Encapsulation: Showing only essential features without showing any background detail is called data abstraction.
Wrapping up of data in a single unit is data encapsulation.

Inheriternice: Acquring the properties of one class into another class is inheritence.

Polymorphism: Single name multiple functionality.

Dynamic Binding: Runtime memory allocation.

Message Passing: Call by value / return by value.
